# Article 179

  The President shall cause to be prepared and laid before Parliament at least one month before the end of the financial year, estimates of the revenues and expenditure of the Government of Ghana for the following financial year.
  The estimates of the expenditure of all public offices and public corporations, other than those set up as commercial ventures-
    shall be classified under programmes or activities which shall be included in a bill to be known as an Appropriation Bill and which shall be introduced into Parliament to provide for the issue from the Consolidated Fund or such other appropriate fund, of the sums of money necessary to meet that expenditure and the appropriation of those sums for the purposes specified in that bill; and
    shall, in respect of payments charged on the Consolidated Fund, be laid before Parliament for the information of members of Parliament.
  The Chief Justice shall, in consultation with the Judicial Council, cause to be submitted to the President at least two months before the end of each financial year, and thereafter as and when the need arises.
    the estimates of administrative expenses of the Judiciary charged on the Consolidated Fund under article 127 of this Constitution; and
    estimates of development expenditure of the Judiciary.
  The President shall, at the time specified in clause (1) of this article, or thereafter, as and when submitted to him under clause (3) of this article, cause the estimated referred to in clause (3) of this article to be laid before Parliament.
  The estimates shall be laid before Parliament under clause (4) by the President without revision but with any recommendations that the Government may have on them.
  The development expenditure of the Judiciary, if approved by Parliament, shall be a charge on the Consolidated Fund.
  Parliament shall prescribe the procedure for the presentation of Appropriation Bills.
  Where, in respect of a financial year, it is found that the amount of moneys appropriated by the Appropriation Act for any purpose is insufficient or that a need has arisen for expenditure for a purpose for which no sum of moneys has been appropriated by that Act, a supplementary estimate showing the sum of money required, shall be laid before Parliament for its approval.
  Where, in the case of a financial year, a supplementary estimate has been approved by Parliament in accordance with clause (8) of this article, a supplementary Appropriation Bill shall be introduced into Parliament in the financial year next following the financial year to which the estimates relates, providing for the appropriation of the sum so approved for the purposes specified in that estimate.
  Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding clauses of this article, the President may cause to be prepared and laid before Parliament, estimates of revenue and expenditure of Ghana for periods of over one year.
  Whenever in the estimates prepared in accordance with clauses (1) and (8) of this article provision is made for an item or vote other than for the Contingency Fund, not relating to a specific item of expenditure, any moneys voted by Parliament in respect of that item or vote shall be under the control and supervision of a Committee which shall consist of the President, the Speaker and the Chairman of the Council of the Council of State.
